.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
  PLEASE READ THIS FIRST

Thank you for wanting to help us improve the Mullvad VPN app by reporting
issues. But please read this first, since there is a chance you have a better
option than filing an issue here: If...

* you ran into a problem with the app - Send a problem report directly from
within the app. Go to Settings -> Report a problem. That way our support team
get the error logs they need and will get back to you much faster than anyone will
on this issue tracker. You can just email support@mullvad.net as well for help.

* you want to suggest a feature or code improvement - First search all existing open
and closed issues (https://github.com/mullvad/mullvadvpn-app/issues?q=is%3Aissue)
to see if maybe that feature has already been suggested. If not, go ahead with the issue.

REMOVE THIS ENTIRE COMMENT BLOCK BEFORE POSTING
---------------------------------------------------------
-->

## Issue report

Operating system: <!-- Name AND version of operating system. For example Windows 10 or Android 9 -->

App version: <!-- Version of the Mullvad VPN app you are running. For example 2020.4 -->

### Issue description

<!-- Describe the feature you want to suggest or what it is you want to report an issue about -->

Commit message:

Tell users to contact support if their request is not app related

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
  PLEASE READ THIS FIRST

Thank you for wanting to help us improve the Mullvad VPN app by reporting
issues. But please read this first, since there is a chance you have a better
option than filing an issue here: If...

* this repository is for questions/suggestions/reports/etc specific to our
VPN application. If what you are about to post is not related to our app,
please contact our support team instead: support@mullvad.net

* you ran into a problem with the app - Send a problem report directly from
within the app. Go to Settings -> Report a problem. That way our support team
get the error logs they need and will get back to you much faster than anyone will
on this issue tracker. You can just email support@mullvad.net as well for help.

* you want to suggest a feature or code improvement - First search all existing open
and closed issues (https://github.com/mullvad/mullvadvpn-app/issues?q=is%3Aissue)
to see if maybe that feature has already been suggested. If not, go ahead with the issue.

REMOVE THIS ENTIRE COMMENT BLOCK BEFORE POSTING
---------------------------------------------------------
-->

## Issue report

Operating system: <!-- Name AND version of operating system. For example Windows 10 or Android 9 -->

App version: <!-- Version of the Mullvad VPN app you are running. For example 2020.4 -->

### Issue description

<!-- Describe the feature you want to suggest or what it is you want to report an issue about -->
