# Management interface node gRPC bindings

This package provides node (JS/TS) gRPC bindings generated from our `.proto` files.The bindings
consists of two parts:

- The bindings automatically generated from `.proto` files.
- A manually created `index` file which exposes the autogenerated bindings.

The autogenerated bindings must be regenerated when the source `.proto` files are updated.

## Container image

The bindings are generated within a Linux container which builds the `grpc-tools` binaries from the
`grpc-node` repository from source. These binaries are then used to generate the binaries.

### Build image

Builds the container image which can then be run to generate node gRPC bindings from `.proto` files.
Normally you would only need to do this if you are updating the image.

**NOTE**: It is important to build the image from the `desktop` folder, otherwise the correct paths
can not be accessed.

```bash
cd desktop
podman build . -f packages/management-interface/Dockerfile -t mullvadvpn-app-build-node-grpc-bindings
```

### Update image

If changes have been made in the `Dockerfile` or the `scripts` shell scripts then the image should
be [re-built](#build-image) and then pushed to the container repository. After a new image is pushed
to the container repository the hash of the new image should be updated in the associated script.

### Publish to container repository

_TODO: Add more info on how to actually push the image_

#### Post publish

When the new image has been pushed to the container repository we must ensure we use the new
version.

Get hash of the new image:

```bash
podman images -q mullvadvpn-app-build-node-grpc-bindings:latest
```

Then update the `IMAGE_HASH` variable used in the shell script:

`desktop/packages/management-interface/scripts/container-run-generate-bindings.sh`

## Usage

### Generate bindings

Run the `build` script to generate the bindings.

```bash
npm run -w management-interface build
```
