docs/split-tunneling.md, before:

# Split tunneling

Split tunneling allows excluding selected apps from the VPN tunnel. These apps will communicate with the network as if Mullvad VPN was disconnected or not even running.

## Vocabulary

* **Split tunneling** - The name of the feature.
* **Excluded app** - An app that only communicates outside of the VPN tunnel.
* **Included app** - An app that only communicates inside the VPN tunnel (when the tunnel is up).
  This is the default for all apps until they have been explicitly excluded.
* **To exclude** - The act of enabling split tunneling for a specific app, excluding its traffic
  from the VPN tunnel.
* **To include** - The act of disabling split tunneling for a specific app, including its traffic
  in the VPN tunnel again.

## DNS

DNS is a bit problematic to exclude properly. Ideally DNS requests from excluded apps would
always go outside the tunnel, because that's what they would have done if Mullvad was disconnected
or not running. But this is very hard/impossible to achieve on some platforms.
One reason for this is that on some operating systems, programs call into a system service
for name resolution. This system service will then perform the actual DNS lookup.
Since all DNS requests then originate from the same process/system service, it becomes hard
to know which ones are for excluded apps and which ones are not.

Some definitions of terms used later to describe behavior:

* **In tunnel** - DNS requests are sent in the VPN tunnel. Firewall rules ensure they
    are not allowed outside the tunnel*.
* **Outside tunnel** - DNS requests are sent outside the VPN tunnel. Firewall rules ensure
    they cannot go inside the tunnel*.
* **LAN** - Same as **Outside tunnel** with the addition that the firewall rules ensure
    the destination can only be in private non-routable IP ranges*.

* **Default DNS** - Custom DNS is disabled. The app uses the VPN relay server (default gateway)
    as the DNS resolver.
* **Private custom DNS** - Custom DNS is enabled and the resolver IP is in a private IP range.
* **Public custom DNS** - Custom DNS is enabled and the resolver IP is not in a private IP range.
* **System DNS** - Means the DNS configured in the operating system (or given by DHCP).

*: On platforms where we have custom firewall integration. This is currently on desktop operating
  systems, and not mobile.

### Windows

| In-app DNS setting | Normal & Excluded app |
|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) |

In other words: Normal and excluded processes always behave the same. This is due to the
Windows DNS cache service is the single origin for all DNS requests.

### Linux

| In-app DNS setting | Normal app | Excluded app |
|-|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) | In tunnel (to relay) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) | Outside tunnel* (to 8.8.8.8) |

*: Only if a local DNS resolver, such as systemd-resolved is **not in use**. Because if a
local DNS resolver is in use the requests will go there and that resolver in turn will then
send requests in the tunnel.

In other words: Normal and excluded processes behave the same in all cases except when Custom DNS
is enabled, pointed to a publicly available IP and the system is not set up to use a localhost DNS
resolver.

### Android

| In-app DNS setting | Normal app | Excluded app |
|-|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN* (to 10.0.1.1) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |

*: The "Local network sharing" option must be enabled to actually allow access to these IPs.
Otherwise DNS won't work.

In other words: Excluded apps behave as if there was no VPN tunnel running at all.

Commit message:

Explain why DNS fails for excluded apps in some states

docs/split-tunneling.md, after:

# Split tunneling

Split tunneling allows excluding selected apps from the VPN tunnel. These apps will communicate with the network as if Mullvad VPN was disconnected or not even running.

## Vocabulary

* **Split tunneling** - The name of the feature.
* **Excluded app** - An app that only communicates outside of the VPN tunnel.
* **Included app** - An app that only communicates inside the VPN tunnel (when the tunnel is up).
  This is the default for all apps until they have been explicitly excluded.
* **To exclude** - The act of enabling split tunneling for a specific app, excluding its traffic
  from the VPN tunnel.
* **To include** - The act of disabling split tunneling for a specific app, including its traffic
  in the VPN tunnel again.

## DNS

DNS is a bit problematic to exclude properly. Ideally DNS requests from excluded apps would
always go outside the tunnel, because that's what they would have done if Mullvad was disconnected
or not running. But this is very hard/impossible to achieve on some platforms.
One reason for this is that on some operating systems, programs call into a system service
for name resolution. This system service will then perform the actual DNS lookup.
Since all DNS requests then originate from the same process/system service, it becomes hard
to know which ones are for excluded apps and which ones are not. Because the DNS service is not
excluded, DNS lookups **will fail** in the connecting, disconnecting, and error
[states](architecture.md) whenever they must be sent through a tunnel.

Some definitions of terms used later to describe behavior:

* **In tunnel** - DNS requests are sent in the VPN tunnel. Firewall rules ensure they
    are not allowed outside the tunnel*.
* **Outside tunnel** - DNS requests are sent outside the VPN tunnel. Firewall rules ensure
    they cannot go inside the tunnel*.
* **LAN** - Same as **Outside tunnel** with the addition that the firewall rules ensure
    the destination can only be in private non-routable IP ranges*.

* **Default DNS** - Custom DNS is disabled. The app uses the VPN relay server (default gateway)
    as the DNS resolver.
* **Private custom DNS** - Custom DNS is enabled and the resolver IP is in a private IP range.
* **Public custom DNS** - Custom DNS is enabled and the resolver IP is not in a private IP range.
* **System DNS** - Means the DNS configured in the operating system (or given by DHCP).

*: On platforms where we have custom firewall integration. This is currently on desktop operating
  systems, and not mobile.

### Windows

| In-app DNS setting | Normal & Excluded app |
|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) |

In other words: Normal and excluded processes always behave the same. This is due to the
Windows DNS cache service is the single origin for all DNS requests.

### Linux

| In-app DNS setting | Normal app | Excluded app |
|-|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) | In tunnel (to relay) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) | LAN (to 10.0.1.1) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) | Outside tunnel* (to 8.8.8.8) |

*: Only if a local DNS resolver, such as systemd-resolved is **not in use**. Because if a
local DNS resolver is in use the requests will go there and that resolver in turn will then
send requests in the tunnel.

In other words: Normal and excluded processes behave the same in all cases except when Custom DNS
is enabled, pointed to a publicly available IP and the system is not set up to use a localhost DNS
resolver.

### Android

| In-app DNS setting | Normal app | Excluded app |
|-|-|-|
| **Default DNS** | In tunnel (to relay) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |
| **Private custom DNS** (e.g. 10.0.1.1) | LAN* (to 10.0.1.1) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |
| **Public custom DNS** (e.g. 8.8.8.8) | In tunnel (to 8.8.8.8) | Outside tunnel (to system DNS) |

*: The "Local network sharing" option must be enabled to actually allow access to these IPs.
Otherwise DNS won't work.

In other words: Excluded apps behave as if there was no VPN tunnel running at all.
